Title: Individual Assignment 1: Testing Theory
date: 2024-01-30
tags: labs, policy, grading
authors: Hazel Victoria Campbell
status: published
summary: Individual Assignment 1: Testing Theory
----


[TOC]

# Submission

-   Please upload a **pdf** on eClass.
-   Please draw all diagrams using any program of your choice such that
    your TA can clearly read it.
-   The assignment consists of 4 questions

# Overview

The learning objectives of this assignment is:

-   develop equivalence classes
-   gain experience in combinatorial testing
-   identify states and transitions from a high-level description of a
    problem
-   create simple control flow graphs
-   calculate different types of coverage

Please note that it is important for you to understand how to solve the
problems in this assignment, as you will get similar types of problems
in the exams.

The assignment is out of 38 marks.

# Question 1 (6 marks)

You are evaluating a system that requires a user to login with a
"strong" password. The password must satisfy the following requirements:

1.  Minimum length: 10 characters
2.  At least two uppercase characters
3.  At least one number
4.  At least one special symbol

Your goal is to combinatorially test the `resetPassword` function:

`boolean resetPassword (String newPwd);`

The `resetPassword` function takes a string as an input and returns true
if the password meets the above requirements. If the password does not
meet stated requirements, then the new password is rejected and
`resetPassword` returns false.

To create concrete test cases for this function, you will decompose the
relevant dimensions of the password constraints. Use
[TSLGenerator](https://github.com/snadi/tslgenerator) to help you
generate the test frames. Your steps are roughly as follows:

1.  Identify equivalence classes for the password inputs.
2.  Translate the specification from Step 1 to TSL's format and generate
    an all-pairs test specification.
3.  Identify inadmissable combinations or opportunities to reduce your
    test cases, flag them and adjust your constraints or classes, then
    regenerate tests.

Note that this process may require some iteration: you may want to use
the results of Step 3 to refine your inputs as generated from Steps 1
and 2.

For this question, you must (1) describe your final equivalence classes
and constraints. (2) State how many tests TSL were initially generated
in Step 1 with no constraints and how many tests were finally generated
after iterating through the above steps. (3) list the final test frames
generated by the tool. (4) pick 3 test frames and create concrete test
cases for them (remember that test cases include input and output), (5)
Briefly (3-5 sentences), reflect on your experience in this process. Is
this something you would use again? Did it help you think about the
domain?

*Hint: Note that this question does not have a single correct answer.
The goal is for you to think about criteria that make sense to partition
your domain into equivalence classes and what these equivalence classes
are. If you end up having too many test frames for such a simple problem
(e.g., 50-80), then perhaps think of further constraints that can help
you reduce this number.*

# Question 2 (6 marks)

For the following code, (a) provide a list of test cases that achieve
full branch coverage, keeping in mind that this is Java code:

    public int foo(int a, int b) {
        if (a<15)
            a--;
        if (b+a>50)
            b=b/a;
        return b+a;
    }

For the same code, (b) provide a list of test cases that achieves full
statement coverage, but not full branch coverage.

# Question 3 (7 marks)

**Scenario:** A check-in machine is installed at an airport. A detailed
description of how to use this machine is as follows:

**To use the check-in machine adhere to the following procedure:**

1.  You can choose to check in with your booking number or with your
    credit card:

    (a) You have chosen to check in with your booking number. Enter your
        number and click "Continue".

        (i) The machine validates your booking numbers
        (ii) If your number is correct, the machine goes to 2
        (iii) If the number is not correct, the machine goes back to
              1(a), where you are able to try again

    (b) You have chosen to check in with your credit card. Put your card
        into the machine.

        (i) The machine validates the card
        (ii) If the card is accepted, the machine goes to 2
        (iii) If the card is rejected, the machine goes to 1

2.  You will now be prompted for the number of luggage items you want to
    check in. When you have entered the number, you click "Continue" and
    the machine goes to 3

3.  You will now be asked if you want to reserve a seat or change an
    existing seat reservation (if you have already reserved a seat)

    (a) If you confirm, the machine goes to 4

    (b) If you do not confirm, the machine goes to 5

4.  You choose an available seat and click "Continue". The machine goes
    to 5.

5.  Your boarding card will be printed out along with the luggage tags.
    When you have taken the boarding card and luggage tags, the machine
    goes to 6.

6.  The machine wishes you an enjoyable flight, and goes back to 1.

*During interaction with the machine, you always have the possibility to
click "Cancel". If you do so, the machine will immediately go back to
1.*

(a) \[4 marks\] Draw a finite state machine (a.k.a state transition
    diagram) that shows how the machine works. Make sure to clearly
    label your states (e.g., with numbers 1, 2 etc), such that you can
    refer to them in the next question. Also, beside the graph, write
    the total number of nodes and transitions in your graph.

(b) \[1 mark\] Write down a set of test cases, where each test case is a
    sequence of states (e.g., 1-\>2-\>3 etc), to achieve 100 percent
    state coverage.

(c) \[1 mark\] What is the transition coverage of the test suite you
    created in (b)?

(d) \[1 mark\] Is there any relationship between transition coverage and
    state coverage?

# Question 4 (19 marks)

Consider the following method `isValidMove` given below (*line numbers
shown for easier reference*). It is based on the game
[Klondike](https://bicyclecards.com/how-to-play/klondike/) where you
move cards around and the goal is to play move cards in way so that all
the cards end up in the suits where each of the four suits is a sequence
from Ace to King.

    public static String isValidMove(String from, String to) {
    1.    if ((from == null || from.trim().isEmpty()) || (to == null || to.trim().isEmpty())) { // A
    2.        return "Invalid: <from> and <to> both needs to be non-empty strings";
    3.    }
    4.
    5.    if (from.equals("stock") && isValidPileNumber(to)) { // B
    6.        return "Valid: stock to pile"
    7.    } else if (from.equals("stock") && SUITS.contains(to)) { // C
    8.        return "Valid: stock to suit"
    9.    } else if (isValidPileNumber(from)) { // D
    10.       if (!(isValidPileNumber(to) || SUITS.contains(to))) { // E
    11.           return "Invalid: <to> value is invalid";
    12.       }
    13.       return "Valid: pile to (pile or suit)"
    14.   } 
    15.   return "Invalid <from> or <to> value";
    }

    // Helper variables and methods 
    public static final Collection<String> SUITS = Arrays.asList("s", "d", "h", "c");

    public static boolean isValidPileNumber(String input) {
        try {
            int i = Integer.parseInt(input.trim());
            return i >= 1 && i <= 7;
        } catch (NumberFormatException ex) {
            return false;
        }
    }

(a) \[4 marks\] Draw a fully labelled control-flow graph for the method
    `isValidMove`. You may use the labels A - E shown in the code to
    label predicates in the graph. For easier traceability for us when
    marking, please use the line numbers in the code to label nodes in
    your graph.

*Please note that the method `isValidPileNumber` and the variable
`SUITS` are provided to help you understand the logic, and they are not
be a part of the control-flow graph.*

(b) \[1 mark\] Obtaining a 100% statement (a.k.a node) coverage requires
    (at least) six tests on this graph. Explain why.

(c) \[9 marks\] Provide six tests (as calls to `isValidMove(from, to)`)
    that satisfy 100% statement coverage on this graph. Make your tests
    short. You need to include assert statements in your test to
    indicate the expected output, or put a comment to clearly indicate
    what the expected output of this test is. **For each test, indicate
    the path it covers.** For easier readability, please follow the
    following template for specifying your concrete tests.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
    //ADD COVERED PATH AS A COMMENT
    assertEquals("<EXPECTED>", isValidMove("FROM", "TO"));

(d) \[5 marks\] Identify the conditions in this program and create a
    test suite with 100% MC/DC coverage. For each test case, provide
    concrete values for the `from` and `to` parameters. You **must**
    show your intermediate work and how you arrived to your answer.
    Final answers only will not get a grade.

*Hint: for each branch in the program, break it down into its
conditions, then create the MC/DC table for each branch predicate.*
